# CerebralMatters-BITS-G7

Concept
Cerebral Mattersis a 2D platform video game designed for PC. The player plays as an Unidentified Flying Object (UFO), flying around earth and abducting humans through a tractor beam. Cerebral Matters will be in the science fiction genre with dark comedy aspects introduced using the game’s story, dialogue,and sound effects.

Story
In the game universe, the Earth is a human farm run by the extra-terrestrial enterprise, Cerebral Matters. Cerebral Matters produces CerebrEXTREME, an energy drink which is made from Neurillium, a matter contained in human brains and harvested bythe organisationfor the drink. The player will play as a newly recruited pilot of one of Cerebral Matters’ human harvesting crafts, sent to Earth toharvest fresh Neurilliumfor CerebrEXTREME.

Basic Mechanics
Using the ‘WASD’ keys as directional controls, the player will fly the UFO through various 2D, side view levels, hunting down and harvesting humans by firing their tractor beam at them which is controlled by the space bar.We will make use of inertia-like mechanics in the UFO’s movement controls; the UFO will take a moment to reach full speed after a directional button is pressed and a moment to come to a complete stop after the button is released. This will make the UFO feel good to play with a slight ‘floaty’ feeling, intended to indicate the UFO is unaffected by Earth’s normal gravity. The player must navigate safely through the levels which will be filled with various obstacles such as buildings, trees, and mountains. Any impact with an obstacle will destroy the UFO. The humans will be standing or walking around out in the open until the UFO reaches a certain proximity at which point,they will scatter and start running to safe places such as buildings, trees, umbrellas, or caves. While in a safe place,the humans will be unable to be abducted. They will eventually start re-emerging after the UFO has been out of proximity for some time.
At the top of the screen, there will be a countdown timer and a Neurillium energy bar. The Neurillium bar gets incrementally filled with each human abduction. The player must have the Neurilliumbar filled and get to the exit portal, which will spawn when the bar is full, before the timer is up, otherwise the level must be restarted. 

Aesthetics
We intend to portray an aesthetic of a futuristic Earth,the UFO flying through a high-tech world stylised in a cyberpunk-like palette of neon greens and purples. The human abductees will be characterised in a ‘chibi’ style, using a few basic body templates (e.g., adult male, adult female, child etc.) which can be combined with various hair and clothing designs to create any number of unique individuals.The UFO will be in the classic flying saucer form, around disc with a bulbous cockpit, the tractor beam being a coloured, translucent beam of light emitted from the underside of the disc. 

Sound Effects and Music 
Music and sound effects will be electronically produced and inspired by a ‘synthwave’ style aesthetic.The synth sounds and music will be used with the intention of creating a spooky, sci-fi and alien setting with the UFO making robotic, futuristic, metallic-like humming noises. Human characters will be voiced, with the player hearing various screams and dialog. Tutorial dialogue will be voiced with a humorous style, with the intention of counteracting the straight sci-fi setting
